`preprocessing` is a python library designed for the purpose of preprocessing MRI data at QTIM. It currently supports reorganization of dicom files, subsequent nifti conversion, and brain preprocessing. Its outputs are intended to follow the BIDS organizational scheme.

Aside from python dependencies, this repo also requires external software to run some of the commands. On Martinos Machines, everything will be sourced automatically and will require no additional work on your part. If you want to use `preprocessing` on your own machine, you will have to install ANTS, Slicer, and dcm2niix (easily available through fsl) and source them within your shell.

While you can import this code directly into your own python scripts, the most convenient way to run common functions is through the CLI. Once installed to your project's environment using pip or poetry, you will be able to access the most important functionality through `preprocessing`'s various subcommands. At any time, use `preprocessing --help` for an overview of the available commands and a brief description of each. For more in depth descriptions of each command, use `preprocessing <command> --help`.

This library utilizes csv files for the majority of its functions. Specific columns may be required for each to run properly. If you are using the CLI, use `--help` to view the columns required for a given command. Alternatively, reference the docstrings if you wish to use `preprocessing` directly within python. For an example of what formatting to expect, check [here](example.csv).
